Did they ever put an animal in your room?
No.
Any Babbo bombs?
I don't know what that is.
Oh, take a can of Babbo and put a cherry bomb in it?
No.
And put it in your room and blow Babbo everywhere?
Things got more serious as the war started.
Did you all listen to the radio regularly to hear the news of what was happening?
Yes.
Did you ever hear many reports of some of your acquaintances that had already gone away to war?
Did you all ever hear much from them?
We get letters and occasional phone calls, but seldom, and usually they were still in the States.
They weren't overseas.
During this time, what did you and your buddies think about the Aggie band?
What image did it have?
Very good image.
They were the grandest band that I am.
What about the Yale leaders?
We had four Yale leaders, two juniors, two seniors.
We liked our yell leaders.
Was that a big image task, to be a yell leader?
Yes, it was.
I don't think it was quite as big as being president of the class, but it was a good one to be a yell leader.
Now, the biggest student leadership role was to be corps commander?
Right.
How was the Corps commander selected as far as you knew?
It was selected by the attack officers.
And how they did it, I don't know.
As far as you all knew, did the Corps commanders, did they deserve that role?
I think pretty much so.
The Corps commander was always a well thought of person.
He was a good, he made good grades and he was clean cut, nothing bad about him.
He wasn't always the popular guy, but he was, you could admire and respect his record.
When you, what was your task as a junior?
I was top kick of the outfit.
Top kick.
Who made that choice, do you know?
The seniors.
How did, were you, was there an interview?
No, no.
How did you learn you'd been selected?
On Mother's Day they called me out and we were in the thing.
And they had called my mother and father and told them to come down.
Oh.
And I didn't know they were there.
And I was presented the best drill medal.
Oh.
And the guy that gets the best drill medal was the guy that they made top kick his junior year and COO his senior year.
What did mom and dad say when they got, what did they tell you when you got that honor?
Uh, they just, mother said that I've forgotten she's been more, but dad said, well, son, uh, you're tending to your business and, uh, keep it up.
And, uh, you've made a good record here.
Keep it up.
and keep tending to your business and conduct yourself so people admire and respect you.
Did you think then that that was the big step toward becoming the outfit CO?
Oh, you knew that.
That was our routine, at least in the Coast Artillery.
The Coast Artillery, when y'all drilled,
Did y'all drill with some artillery?
No.
Ours was real just for competition drill.
Okay.
No, no, I mean when you all had training, like the cavalry trained with horses, what did y'all train with?
Well, we had guns.
Really?
Yeah, we had guns in the back of the petroleum building.
Okay.
They had anti-aircraft guns and had machine guns.
Did y'all ever fire blanks?
Not, no.
We just went through the routine of setting them up.
What was the nickname for Coast Artillery, or was there one?
I don't believe there was.
For you and your buddies, was there any part of the Corps that y'all thought was the most superior?
Yes.
What had the highest prestige?
Coast artillery.
What had the lowest?
I'd probably say quartermaster corps.
We call them the services corps.
It's quartermaster and what, signal corps?
What was it?
Signal corps.
Yes, sir.
Yeah.
What, as you and your buddies talked about the war, coast artillery,
What did you all think you all would be called upon to do during the war?
Well, of course the artillery had anti-aircraft and that's what we spent our big time training on, anti-aircraft fire.
And that we'd be doing that and... During those early years, do you remember going to muster?
On the campus, Aggie Muster?
Yes.
Where was it held?
I think it was held at the stadium.
I'm fuzzy, but I think it was held at the stadium.
Did you all hear about the Muster on Corregidor?
Yes.
The famous one in 1942?
Yeah, yeah.
We heard about it.
Because as far as I can tell from these interviews, muster was kind of a small event until World War II.
Until the war started.
And then it really became significant.
Yeah.
It was held all over the country.
Right.
As this routine of activities changed, when did you buy your senior ring?
Do you remember?
When I became a senior, you could buy the ring.
If you had to be classified as a senior, you could buy the ring, but you wore it inverted inside out.
Can you see that?
Yes, sir.
Can you read anything on it?
No, it looks like it's been worn.
Yes.
That's your original?
That's my original.
Do you remember what it cost?
$21.
Where'd you get that, Tony?
Was that your money?
Yes.
I spent one summer, let's see, a summer between my freshman and sophomore years, between my sophomore and junior years, I worked in the oil field.
And uh, I was roused about one year and roughneck the next year.
And uh, I really, I was going with the girl that I married, my first wife, the wife that died.
And uh, I was working in the summertime and putting away money and going to have enough money to uh,
be able to get married.
And, of course, uh, and that's the way it happened.
But, uh, I was, I spent, I recognized that my parents had put me here.
I bought my own ring.
And, uh, I bought the yearbook
myself out of my money that I'd earned during the summers.
Why are Aggie rings so treasured?
To let everybody know you're an Aggie.
Aggie born and Aggie bred and when I die I'll be an Aggie dead.
Did you ever lose your ring?
No.
Do you have any good ring stories of being somewhere other side of the world and somebody spotted it?
Oh, I'm sure that happened.
I don't really recall that.
But here, two years ago or a year and a half ago, I had a severe operation where they opened me up from here to here.
And I've lost weight.
And so I have to put— Oh, yes.
Adhesive tape around to make it tight because I've lost my fingers aren't as fat as they were before that happened.
Then your senior boots, where'd you get them?
I got them from Hollicks.
Remember what they cost?
Yeah, they cost in the 20s.
I've forgotten whether it was 21 or 25 or what, but the senior ring and you got to where the senior ring inverted your senior year and you got to where your boots your senior year.
And do you still have those boots?
You bet I do.
They're in a case, you know, it's this high and that square.
What were your thoughts when you first wore those boots officially, formally?
I thought,
Really, my thoughts were, my parents will be proud of me.
We were never wealthy, and I knew it was a strain for them to send me to school, a strain to send my sister to school, who's two years older than I, and that they had sacrificed to do it.
and that I hope I conducted myself so as to make them think it was all justified and that they were proud of me.
And I was very devoted to both my mother and father.
Did they and this special young lady come down for your first formal review at the end of your junior year?
They both, yeah.
And it was held on the drill field?
Yes.
What was the feeling?
Well, no, ours was held on in that, when that presentation was made, it was right there in front of the dormitory.
Oh, on military walk?
Yeah.
Oh.
And was there a different atmosphere because of the war?
There was with me, and I think pretty much with everybody, that we knew we were in what could be a deadly war.
Did anybody make a special kind of speech at Final Review?
No, not at final review.
Then your senior year, y'all had speeded up and so you graduated in January?
January.
Of 40?
Well, really graduated in December.
December of 40?
42.
Two.
December of 42.
I was class of 43, but December of 42.
Was there a final review?
Uh...
I'm sure there was.
I don't officially remember that, but.
Did parents and your girlfriend come down for commencement?
Yes.
And it was held in Guyon?
No, ours was held in what?
Yeah, Guyon Hall at the foot of the military wall.
Guyon Hall, yeah.
Do you remember who the speaker was?
Do not.
Nobody remembers their commencement speaker.
And you got your diploma?
Got my diploma and got my orders.
Walked across stage, got your diploma, you got your orders.
Walked down and... How well did you feel A&M had prepared you for the future?
I thought it had done a good job.
Now, what—I had made pretty good grades, and, well, they started me off—I was a school teacher.
That's what I did in the Army.
They taught me off.
I taught at the Officer Candidate School.
Where?
At Camp Lejeune in North Carolina.
I think Lejeune was the name.
But that used to be a marine base, was this?
No, well Lejeune then, that's, we spent some time in Lejeune.
Oh.
We were at the southern end outside of Wilmington.
Oh, okay.
Whatever that camp.
That's all right.
I don't remember, but that's where I was a school teacher.
All right, and you still had not, had you married by then?
No.
Okay.
Well, I say no, that's not right.
I had married by then.
Okay.
I married while I was there.
Back to A&M.
What creates this great Aggie spirit and pride?
I think in my day it was the fact that we were all male, all military, and that it was a tougher school than if you went to one of these co-ed schools where you didn't have the military, you didn't have the
The tightness of relationships with the guy across the hall from you.
They lived in, most of the kids lived in dormitories on the campus and that didn't happen at other schools the way it did at A&M and we were closer, closer grouped people than they were from Baylor University or
Was it probably true that y'all were all in the same fraternity?
Yes, I think so.
And Aggie born and Aggie bred Winneadabie and Aggie did.
And so that yell practice and silver taps and muster and commencement and final review and all of those pulled everybody together.
That's right.
And as a freshman, we were required to know the name of everybody in our outfit and everybody's hometown.
You did, that was required as freshmen.
Well, if there was somebody you saw and you could not call them by name, we had to walk in the streets.
You couldn't call them by name.
You stopped Fish Bright and you had to introduce yourself.
Well, of course, we only had about 38, 3900 students when I was a freshman.
And I could call everybody's name on the campus.
And I don't think you did that at other universities and other schools.
And you knew everybody and you felt a warm and close relationship with them.
Are there some people from all those years that you look back on now with particular gratitude?
Yes.
Well, first, I think I'll start with my professors.
I think we had a good group of professors.
I think I learned a lot from Mr. Vance, who was head of the department.
I learned a lot from Pascal Martin, who was one of my professors.
And, but I think you learn
how to live and how to exist and how to do well from not only your parents but from your professors, too.
And I think somehow they conveyed that.
I think it was probably because of the military.
And we were all military then.
You gained a sense of knowing that the war came on your junior year and that you got to finish.
You felt you were privileged to get to finish your education, and it was up to you to repay that privilege by making an impact
While you're in the army in behalf of the country and I tried to do that and I Got to be see all my outfit and
We were 1374th engineers.
We were good.
Our job was really putting in river crossings.
We crossed the Villa River, the Seine, the Meuse, the Moselle, the Marne twice, the Rhine twice, and the
There was one other little river that was a tributary to the Rhine that we crossed.
They had nine river crossings, and they had the assault across those rivers and put the pipeline across it, and then they joined up.
Other people were building the pipeline up to it, but they hooked onto our river crossings to get to the next place.
Did you ever run into an Aggie named Earl Rudder during those war years?
Not during the war years, I did after the war.
As you look back on your A&M years, is there anything that A&M failed to do or didn't do as well as it should have during your time?
Not to me that I see.
I think it was a very good university and I think it had a leg up on a lot of other ones because of the closeness of the student body and the fact that Aggie Bruin and Aggie Brad and Winnipeg and Aggie did attitude.
If you were make believe we just hired you as a consultant
to A&M's leadership today to advise A&M about what it should do for the future.
What advice would you give A&M's leadership today?
Oh, goodness.
I would start out trying to teach a person that he should conduct himself so as to be admired and respected
And there are a lot of different ways to do that.
It is being attentive to your duty, being honest, forthwith, being energetic, having ambition, being reliable, truthful, never attempting to
Being proud of your name and not doing anything to dishonor your name or your reputation.
Wherever you go to leave tracks where people would have been able to say he was a good man, did his duty, and leave footprints on the sands of time that you would not be ashamed of.
and I don't know that I'm saying that well.
Oh, yes you are.
All right, you go away to the war and you come back and get into private business.
What led you to become active in A&M events after World War II?
How did you, how were you drawn back into A&M's life?
Well, I guess primarily when,
I was named by the governor on the Board of Regents.
Did you ask for that?
No.
This is which governor?
I believe it was Clements.
Clements, okay.
I didn't ask for it, but you knew I was
As I said, Aggie born, Aggie bred, when I died being Aggie dead, he knew that.
I was helped to Clements in his campaign.
And when I got there, then they made me chairman of the board of regents.
And I was flattered to do that.
Who was president when you joined the board?
Was this Vandiver or Bill Mobley?
I think it was Vandiver.
No, I guess Vandiver came on while I was chairman.
Okay.
Because maybe Vandiver was there.
I'm fuzzy, but we thought Vandiver was a goof.
There were people who did that.
He called, I'm his first doctoral student at Rice.
He called me the day before his appointment was announced, and he said, don't you dare say anything about this until the announcement tomorrow, but what do you think?
I said, Dr. Vandiver, I can't think of anybody I have ever known who will have as much trouble understanding Texas A&M as you will.
He said, why do you say that?
I said, sir, you're so bright, so brilliant, you never had to go through
the routine us ordinary people did.
You didn't have to go to class.
You didn't have to turn in anything.
You got special treatment all the way through all those years.
Well, he was directing the Rice Band that day and things like that.
What have been your favorite, you've been so generous, what have been your favorite activities at A&M?
Well, I was chairman of the board and I enjoyed that.
I do not get down there for football games.
I would like to, but I generally am busier taking care of my family.
I enjoy meeting people from A&M and visiting with them and reliving some of the old stories, and I had a very good time at A&M.
I made close friends there.
I have, to me, a pride in A&M today, even though I wish it was still all male and as it was when I went, but as I told somebody when they're
When they started meeting girls and so on, they say, well, not only does A&M do it, but, you know, West Point does it.
It is, it's the thing that's happening in the world today.
And I said I wish I had the opportunity to have girls down there when I was there.
Have any of your family gone to A&M?
I've got, yeah, one son down there now and three grandsons down there now.
Oh good, good, good.
One son that's out of, he's not down there now.
You've been extremely generous to A&M.
Why, what led you to be so generous?
We're all grateful that you were.
Well, I think A&M serves this country well.
I think it is, I think it has been a
benefit to this country to the benefit of the benefit of the state and I think it serves a great place in helping develop citizens for this country that will make this country continue to be a leader in the world and I think
That's done it, and I've given—actually, I gave—I made one $25 million gift that's not—that I'm funding out of a development we've got north of town.
And then Slocum,
A couple of years ago, he called and said, I've got to have five million from you for our new building.
And if I get five million from you, well, that'll make it easy for me to collect the rest of it.
So I gave another five million.
I've given $30 million.
That to me is a lot of money.
And I want to express
what I think everybody feels, great, great appreciation that in that big contribution you allowed the university
to use it as wherever they thought it would best serve.
I have no—I think it's foolish to make a gift like that from somebody like me who is not there on a day-to-day basis, and the people that we have there know the best way to use it for the benefit of the university.
Let's see, a question of evaluation.
I'm not going to ask the negative now.
Of the A&M leaders that you have observed, either from long ago or recent, which ones would you give the highest marks to?
Shhh, shhh, shhh.
Well, I think I'd have to almost, uh, categorize them in groups and in, uh, in business, uh, I think, uh, I think there are a number in business that I give high marks to.
I think in, uh,
the academic world uh I may think there are more in the academic world than I do than than that I know of not that they're not